Added a blog for the release of the CLI (#73)
statelyai/eng-blog: content/posts/2022-03-03-introducing-the-xstate-cli.mdx

---
title: "Introducing: The XState CLI"
description: "Get ready to run XState’s typegen commands outside of VSCode in our all-new CLI."
tags:
  - cli
  - xstate
  - announcement
  - typescript
author:
  - Matt Pocock
excerpt: "Get ready to run XState’s typegen commands outside of VSCode in our all-new CLI."
publishedAt: "2022-03-03"
ogImage: "https://stately.ai/blog/2022-03-03-introducing-the-xstate-cli.png"
---

Around a month ago, we released [TypeScript Typegen](/blog/introducing-typescript-typegen-for-xstate) - an enormous upgrade to the TypeScript experience for XState.

We’ve had a great response to it so far, but it’s only been available for VSCode users.

> No longer. Now, with our new XState CLI, **you can get Typegen from the command line**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Until now. With our new XState CLI, **you can get Typegen from the command line**.
```

> No longer. Now, with our new XState CLI, **you can get Typegen from the command line**.

Reviewer 2: "No longer" made me think that it's not available to VSCode users anymore 😂 

```suggestion
Now, it's available _to everyone_. With our new XState CLI, **you can get Typegen from the command line**.
```

> You can read the full documentation on the [`@xstate/cli` docs](https://xstate.js.org/docs/packages/xstate-cli), check out our updated [TypeScript Typegen guide](https://xstate.js.org/docs/guides/typescript.html#typegen), and see the code at the [GitHub repo](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate-tools/tree/main/apps/cli).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Read the full documentation on the [`@xstate/cli` docs](https://xstate.js.org/docs/packages/xstate-cli).
- Check out [our updated TypeScript Typegen guide](https://xstate.js.org/docs/guides/typescript.html#typegen). 
- Find the code on the [@xstate/cli GitHub repo](https://github.com/statelyai/xstate-tools/tree/main/apps/cli).
```

## Installation

> `npm install @xstate/cli`

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
```bash
npm install @xstate/cli
```
````

OR

> `yarn add @xstate/cli`

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
```bash
yarn add @xstate/cli
```
````

## Commands

### `xstate typegen <files>`

> `xstate typegen "src/**/*.tsx?"`

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
```bash
xstate typegen "src/**/*.tsx?"
```
````

> Run the typegen against a glob of files. This will scan every file targeted, and generate a typegen file accompanying it. It will also import the typegen into your file, as described in [our typegen documentation](https://xstate.js.org/docs/guides/typescript.html#typegen).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the typegen against a glob of files. This will scan every targeted file and generate a typegen file accompanying it. It will also import the typegen into your file, as described in [our typegen documentation](https://xstate.js.org/docs/guides/typescript.html#typegen).
```

Ensure you wrap your glob in quotes so that it executes correctly. Otherwise, you’ll get unexpected results.

#### Options

> `xstate typegen "src/**/*.tsx?" --watch`

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
```bash
xstate typegen "src/**/*.tsx?" --watch
```
````
